---
title: '[]{#_u6fx8ziq4a2o .anchor}F. J. Bergmann - Nostalgia'
---

What I really miss, as I've said before, are dire wolves. Six feet high;
that's huge even for a horse. Every kid that had a dog when they were
little tried to ride it like a pony and often got bit doing it too
persistently. The dog would always sink down, just sit or collapse, and
then look at you accusingly. So naturally when you think of a canid that
big you think "Well, that could probably carry my weight and not mind
it, it could be my friend." And I know that the reason horses were
domesticated and ridden is that they have a gap in their teeth where the
bit goes, but if you can train dogs to do all that obedience stuff, you
ought to be able to train a wolf to be ridden. All it would have to do
is run and turn and stop with you on its back. And jump obstacles,
maybe. Attack people on command, like mediaeval warhorses. But dogs
already know how to do that. The wargs they had in *The Two Towers* were
plausible and scary but I was disappointed because they were giant
hyenas instead of giant wolves. You wonder how something that big got to
be extinct; they could probably run down and kill anything, even
mammoths (I miss those, too). Maybe they weren't mean enough. You know:
too laid back, let hunters kill them. Maybe they ran out of food, maybe
they got some kind of dire wolf disease. If it were happening today,
they'd call it DWD or something short and snappy like that, and worry
about pet dogs or people catching it. Dire wolves would have to be
isolated or quarantined. Maybe we could give them Canada.

first appeared in *Thunderclap*
