---
title: '[]{#_f6lm4859y11p .anchor}F. J. Bergmann - Synecdoche'
---

She had been enchanted by Prince Zartigluk's delightful betrothal gifts:
a suspended bower where a mossy couch nestled within the arc of a
hemispherical cage filled with tiny, sweet-voiced finches, all in shades
of leaf-green; an enormous albino lizard whose jewel-like magenta eyes
opened and closed slowly, giving it an expression of somnolent
benevolence; and a portrait that, for once, did not attempt to flatter
her by attenuating her limbs, but instead, seemed to actually emphasize
her muscular shoulders and large, capable hands. She'd been told that
her imposing physique made her a poor prospect for matrimonial bliss,
but he had taken one look at her at Perfetta de Sordre's coming-out ball
and proposed on the spot, which was one in the eye for little Perfetta,
with her 13-inch waist and fragile, die-away airs.

And the wedding presents had been so numerous and munificent that she
had failed to notice among them exactly what his relatives had given
her: the alabaster washboard, the rosewood clothespins, the jeweled
ladles, skewers, and whisks, the vermeil laundry tubs and tureens, and
the scrub-brush with bristles of golden wire.

They took on a new and ominous significance as she looked around the
vast cavern. Beneath the glittering turrets of the castle she had seen
as the bridal procession rode up the mountain pass lay a putrescent,
steaming realm of vats and ovens.

"All this is yours, my dear," the Prince murmured in her ear as he
gestured toward the turning spits and boiling cauldrons. "What will you
be serving us for dinner tonight? No more than eight courses and two
removes are necessary; we don't stand on ceremony here. And I should
mention that the bed-linens throughout the castle are overdue for
laundering, which we would prefer to have done daily."

first appeared in *Opium*
