---
title: '[]{#_po9ir9uznehk .anchor}F. J. Bergmann - Dalliance'
---

My family have always been Flower Fairies. And by flowers I don\'t mean
ugly things that are just technical flowers, like pinecones or broccoli,
either. We live for beauty: petalled, pollen-dusted, perfumed---and
polyploid if possible. Peonies are my favorites; I love to plunge into
their soft nests of pink plumage. The first thing I always do is to
squash all those icky ants.

Anyway, what I meant to say is that my family is Important. Even
compared to other Flower Fairies. But the lower classes can be
entertaining, and the zucchini-blossom fairy with the green wings I
caught admiring the peonies was kind of cute, so I flirted with him and
let him lead me out to the vegetable garden one cloudless afternoon when
the peonies, in full sun, were getting really hot. He said there was
cool, green shade under those enormous squash leaves, and he was right.
And he was *so* adorable about pointing out an enormous gold-and-black
striped spider and warning me not to get too close to its web. As if.

I had a lovely time pretending to ooh and ah over his drab organic
compost, pointing to a bunch of mingy little tomato flowers and asking
if he didn\'t think they looked just like tiny stars, and allowing him
to practically give himself heatstroke bringing me dewdrops and
nasturtium nectar and piles and piles of soft mullein leaves and velvety
pansies until I finally decided the bed was comfy enough.

Afterward, he kept kissing me and running his hands up and down my skin
and not listening to anything I said. I had to tell him I was hot and
not to keep touching me like that about five times before he got the
idea.

He was fun, for an afternoon, but he kept coming *back*. I mean,
*really*? I\'m sorry, but zucchini are *vegetables*. He imagined that I
was going to let myself be seen with him. In. Public. I tried to let him
down gently, but I finally had to be honest with him, and then I
actually had to yell until some of Dad\'s yellowjackets came to ask if
there was anything wrong.

But a week or two after that there was another heat wave, and I
remembered that cool shade and those pretty wings. I flew all around the
squash vines but didn\'t find him. Sweaty and pissed off, I finally gave
up. On the way back, I glanced over at the spider\'s web. One end was
weighted down by a silk-wrapped bundle. I could just see the faded tips
of his green wings.

first appeared in *Tales from the Moonlit Path*
